Marinello, Jessie
Web Programming Fundamentals
January 9, 2014
Problem Solving

A cat, a parrot, and a bag of seed
1)Define the problem
a)Do this in your own words.
b)What insight can you offer into the problem that is not immediately visible from
the word problem alone?
c)What is the overall goal?

The problem is that the man has too small of a boat and has to transport three items that will eat each other since they
are within each other's food chain.

My insight is more of a list of questions:  Why doesn't the man have a bigger boat if he transports things?
Can the parrot fly? How big of a bag of seed is it? Does the man have to row the boat? If not, why can the man not put 
the parrot on his shoulder and hold the cat and bag of seed?

The overall goal is for the man to get all of the items safely to the other side, presumably in order to not loose money.
And to be able to have the items safely on the other side when he returns to grab the other items one at a time.

2)Break the problem apart
a)What are the constraints?
b)What are the sub goals?

The constraints are that this man has to transfer three things across a river in a boat that is too small and he cannot 
leave some of the items alone together, and he has to make sure that the items are not being eaten on the other side when he goes
to get the items left on the other side of the shore.

The subgoals are to figure out what item he can take and what items can stay together.

3)Identify potential solutions
a)For each of the sub problems you’ve discussed in #2, what is a possible solution?

The man could try to balance the items on his person.
The man could have the parrot fly across the river and hold the cat and seed.
The man could put the parrot on his shoulder and take the cat, then get the seed.
Put the cat and bird in separate cages.
The man could tow something behind his boat.
The man could leave the cat with the seed and take the parrot first, as long as he wasn't worried about what would happen on the otherside.

4) Evaluate each potential solution
a)Does each solution meet the goals?
b)Will each solution work for ALL cases

Most of the solutions do not meet the goal of figuring out what two items stay on one side of the shore.
Each solution has the potential to work, but what are ALL cases? Do we mean to ask will it work if the man has a lion,
an elephant, and a bag of peanuts? Most likely not.

5)Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it.
a)Explain the solution in full.
b)Describe some test cases you tried out to make sure it works.

My solution would be to put the parrot on my shoulder, and carry the cat.  Leave the cat on the other side of the shore,
go back, with the parrot still on the shoulder, pick up the bag of seed and return to the side the cat is on.